= rdpl

Rdpl is a simple gem that abstracts *some* of the DPL (Datamax Programming Language)(TM) concepts. Its main purpose is to simplify the creation of labels to be printed using the Datamax(TM) series of printers.

It uses a very simple approach to send jobs to the printer. Basically, the printer has to be configured inside CUPS (Rdpl will use <tt>lpr</tt> to print), so it won't work on systems where CUPS is absent.

== Jobs

Print jobs are represented through instances of <tt>Rdpl::Job</tt>. A job may contain several labels to be printed and must receive the printer's cups id.

  job = Rdpl::Job.new :printer => "some_printer_id"
  job.print

Take a look at the project's rdoc for available options.  

== Labels

Labels are represented through instances of <tt>Rdpl::Label</tt>. A label may contain several elements, which may be text, barcodes, lines, boxes or other graphical elements.

  job = Rdpl::Job.new :printer => "some_printer_id"
  label = Rdpl::Label.new(:quantity => 3, :dot_size => 12)
  label << "some text"
  label << Rdpl::Barcode.new :data => "123456"
  job << label
  job.print

Labels also accept a block when adding new lines, barcodes, boxes or bitmapped text:

  label = Label.new
  label.add_line do |line|
    line.horizontal_width = 12.2
    line.vertical_width   = 14.3
    line.row_position     = 23.4
    line.column_position  = 24.5
  end

It'll always yield a new instance of the given element to the block, so you can specify the element's properties. The other available methods to add new elements to the label are <tt>add_barcode</tt>, <tt>add_box</tt> and <tt>add_bitmapped_text</tt>.

Take a look at the project's rdoc for available options.

== Elements

You can add elements to the labels. Elements may be text, barcodes, lines, boxes or text printed with internal bitmapped fonts. Elements may have a rotation angle, row and column positions and so on. Each kind of element may have specific options, check the docs.

== Barcodes

Barcodes may be created through the <tt>Rdpl::Element::Barcode</tt> class.

  barcode = Rdpl::Barcode.new(
    :rotation              => 4,
    :font_id               => Rdpl::Barcode::CODE_128,
    :data                  => 'SOME DATA 12345',
    :height                => 123,
    :wide_bar_multiplier   => 3,
    :narrow_bar_multiplier => 4,
    :row_position          => 123,
    :column_position       => 234
  )

Take a look at the project's rdoc for available options.

== Boxes

Boxes may be created through the <tt>Rdpl::Element::Box</tt> class.

  box = Rdpl::Box.new(
    :horizontal_width         => 12.2,
    :vertical_width           => 14.3,
    :row_position             => 23.4,
    :column_position          => 24.5,
    :bottom_and_top_thickness => 34.6,
    :sides_thickness          => 45.6
  )

Take a look at the project's rdoc for available options.

== Lines

Lines may be created through the <tt>Rdpl::Element::Line</tt> class.

  line = Rdpl::Line.new(
    :horizontal_width => 12.2,
    :vertical_width   => 14.3,
    :row_position     => 23.4,
    :column_position  => 24.5
  )

Take a look at the project's rdoc for available options.

== Text in Bitmapped fonts

Text elements printed using internal bitmapped fonts may be created through the <tt>Rdpl::Element::BitmappedText</tt> class.

  text = Rdpl::BitmappedText.new(
    :font_id           => 2,
    :width_multiplier  => 2,
    :height_multiplier => 3,
    :row_position      => 20,
    :column_position   => 30,
    :data              => 'HEY LOOK AT ME'
  )

Take a look at the project's rdoc for available options.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Cássio Marques. See LICENSE for details.
